+++
title = "Accessibility in Microsoft Teams"
description = "With more than one billion people with disabilities in the world, accessibility and inclusion are essential to empower every person and organization to achieve more. By using Microsoft Teams for team collaboration, you will foster a more modern and inclusive environment, without needing to know the specific needs of your team members."
date = "2020-08-31"

[taxonomies]
tags = ["microsoft teams"]
+++

As a communication and collaboration tool, Microsoft Teams has built-in
accessibility features reflecting the diversity of its users and
empowering everyone on the team.

![](https://o365hq.com/images/818.png)

With the default color theme of Microsoft Teams, people with certain
vision disabilities may have difficulty navigating through Teams and
reading content.

Not only does *High Contrast Mode* enable someone with reduced contrast
sensitivity to read easily and quickly, it also helps with eye fatigue
by reducing eye strain for any user.

![](https://o365hq.com/images/819.png)

For your team members with visual disabilities, or for team members that
are emerging readers or learning a new language, *Immersive Reader*
increases readability and comprehension of chats and channel
conversations within Teams. Your team can consume content in a way that
suits their individual needs and preferences to increase focus and
understanding.

*Text Preferences* enable users to sustain focus with increased text
sizing and increased spacing between lines, letters, and words. Color
choices within themes include "Irlen" colors that increase focus and
lessen eye strain.

For those who are emerging readers or learning a new language, enabled
*Grammar Options* help increase word recognition and pronunciation, as
well as improving the understanding of sentence structure.

![](https://o365hq.com/images/820.png)

*Line Focus* mode within *Reading Preferences* acts much like a reading
ruler by removing extraneous information and reducing focus to just one,
three, or five lines at a time. Other options within Reading Preferences
increase comprehension by providing graphical hints for specific words
when needed and translation options.

Individuals with dyslexia or low vision may prefer to hear content
instead of reading it. *Read Aloud* can make chats and conversations
within Teams easier to comprehend. Read Aloud reads text out loud while
simultaneously highlighting the related text, improving word recognition
and decoding, and aiding with comprehension and focus.

Read Aloud supports multiple languages and can automatically detect
languages in a multi-lingual document. With Read Aloud, you and your
team can stay productive and listen to their documents while continuing
with other tasks, or even while on the go.

Immersive Reader options within Microsoft Teams allows your team to read
through chats and conversations quickly and without distractions.

![](https://o365hq.com/images/817.png)

For diverse teams to collaborate inclusively, it's important that
meetings and videos are accessible. With transcription, team members who
may have a hearing disability, different levels of language proficiency,
or for those connecting from a loud location can now work more
inclusively with their co-workers.

For videos, you and your team can extend and customize their experience
in Teams with *Stream* app integration. Videos can be embedded within a
channel tab and can also be added to a personalized watch list, making
content available in a centralized location.

*Closed Captions* for videos and recorded meetings are automatically
generated, and now presentations can be better understood by all
viewers.\
It is also possible to customize Closed Captions even further with *Text
size* and *Text color*, delivering a richer, more customizable
experience for every team member.

With automatic transcription, all words spoken within videos and
meetings become searchable metadata, providing yet another way to
consume and focus on important content.

![](https://o365hq.com/images/821.png)

*Live Captions & subtitles* (not generally available in tenants at the
time this demo guide was published,) improve the accessibility and
effectiveness of meetings and live events by enabling attendees to read
speaker captions in real-time. Live Captions & subtitles supports 12
spoken languages and displays on-screen captions in one of 60+
languages, giving your team access to content no matter the disability
or environment.

Diverse teams must be able to seamlessly collaborate, so your team
should check accessibility before sharing all documents and emails. For
team members that are learning a new language or prefer to create and
consume content in a different language, *Translate* can increase
cross-language understanding and break language barriers. For team
members with dysgraphia or dyslexia, creating content without spelling
errors can be a challenge. *Dictate* helps team members save time and
produce better results through the power of voice typing.

![](https://o365hq.com/images/823.png)

While on the go, *Teams mobile* helps you stay up to date with your
team. You can navigate through your Teams mobile app, accessing many of
the same accessibility and inclusivity features available on desktop,
such as customizing the theme of your app.

By using Microsoft Teams mobile for communication and collaboration, you
ensure that everyone on your team has a voice, even while on the go.

![](https://o365hq.com/images/822.png)

Microsoft Teams is designed for people of all abilities, enabling them
to collaborate in their own way, but accessibility doesn't stop with
Microsoft Teams. Built-in accessibility and inclusivity tools within
Microsoft Teams empower every team member to create, communicate, and
collaborate their own way. Microsoft Teams offers an inclusive design
that also works with assistive technologies when needed -- like screen
readers -- to reduce the barriers of effective collaboration and enable
the 285 million blind and visually-impaired around the world to
successfully collaborate with their team, giving everyone a voice.