+++
title = "Azure DDoS Protection"
description = "Microsoft is excited to announce the general availability of the Azure DDoS Protection Standard service in all public cloud regions. This service is integrated with Azure Virtual Networks and provides protection and defense for Azure resources against the impacts of DDoS attacks."
date = 2018-04-23

[taxonomies]
tags = ["azure", "cloud security"]
+++

A denial-of-service attack (DoS attack) is a cyber attack in which the
perpetrator seeks to make a machine or network resource unavailable to
its intended users by temporarily or indefinitely disrupting services of
a host connected to the Internet. Denial of service is typically
accomplished by flooding the targeted machine or resource with
superfluous requests in an attempt to overload systems and prevent some
or all legitimate requests from being fulfilled.

These concerns are justified, as the number of documented DDoS
amplification attacks increased by more than 357 percent in the fourth
quarter of 2017, compared to 2016. Further, more than 56 percent of all
attacks exploit multiple vector combinations. In February 2018, GitHub
was attacked via a reflection exploit in Memcached, generating 1.35
terabits of attack traffic, the largest DDoS attack ever recorded.

As the types and sophistication of network attacks increases, Azure is
committed to providing customers with solutions that continue to protect
the security and availability of applications on Azure. Security and
availability in the cloud is a shared responsibility. Azure provides
platform-level capabilities and designs best practices for customers to
adopt and apply into application designs that meet their business
objectives.
