+++
title = "Azure Security Center"
description = "Azure Security Center is designed to strengthen the security posture of your data centers. It provides advanced threat protection across your hybrid workloads in the cloud and examines whether your resources are safe. "
date = "2020-10-27"

[taxonomies]
tags = ["cloud security", "microsoft azure"]
+++

Security Center helps you manage your security policies, recognize and
fix misconfigurations across your various assets. It detects newly
implemented resources and ensures they are configured according to
security best practices. If not, you will be given recommendations for
what needs to be adjusted to keep your machines safe.

![](https://o365hq.com/images/848.png)

The Azure Secure Score explores your security recommendations and
prioritizes them for you. This allows you to reveal the most serious
security vulnerabilities and achieve greater visibility into the secure
score controls that are related. Controlling vulnerabilities reduces
organizational exposure and strengthens endpoint surface area. Quick Fix
tool streamlines remediation of misconfigurations and gives you an
opportunity to start a remediation action on your behalf.

![](https://o365hq.com/images/847.png)

The Azure Security Center compliance dashboard is built to help you meet
regulatory compliance requirements. Here you can review the status of
all the estimates within your environment and obtain the full range and
flexibility of a world-class policy solution.

The Azure Security Benchmark is a set of high-impact security
recommendations created to keep most services in Azure safe. The
benchmark is incredibly helpful in interpreting how the controls are
adapted to Azure services.

![](https://o365hq.com/images/849.png)

Workflow Automation brings down overhead streamline processes and lets
you use Logic Apps based on security alerts and recommendation. Azure
Logic Apps can be configured to do any custom action as sending an email
or opening a ServiceNowTM ticket. This also includes actions such as
informing relevant stakeholders, setting a change management process and
deploying certain remediation steps. Automation boosts your security by
performing all the process steps quickly and according to your
predefined requirements.

![](https://o365hq.com/images/850.png)

Security Center also supports one of the fastest growing services for
deploying and managing software in the cloud -- Azure Kubernetes Service
(AKS) and uses proven technology from Qualys to help you inspect all the
installed apps on a VM to discover vulnerable applications and introduce
them in the Security Center portal\`s experience. All the deployment
operations are managed by Security Center so that no additional work is
required from the user.

![](https://o365hq.com/images/851.png)

Integration of Azure Security Center with Azure Sentinel allows you to
have a unified, hybrid security experience and makes it simple to
safeguard your entire SQL estate. Your SecOps team can easily retrieve
the threat information from Azure Security Center and surface it into
Azure Sentinel to detect threats before attackers have the chance to
exfiltrate data.

![](https://o365hq.com/images/852.png)

Azure Security Center is a built-in tool that provides you with threat
protection for workloads running in Azure, on-premises, and in other
clouds. It helps you raise cloud security posture and protects against
cyber attacks using Microsoft\`s vast threat intelligence.