+++
title = "Discover, protect, and control your apps with Microsoft Cloud App Security"
description = "Microsoft Cloud App Security is built to help you explore all cloud apps and services in your company, secure data against suspicious usage, and manage user access to corporate resources. "
date = "2020-10-13"

[taxonomies]
tags = ["cloud app security", "microsoft 365", "security"]
+++

Cloud Discovery identifies current cloud apps, provides risk estimates
and ongoing analytics, and helps monitor app use with lifecycle
management facilities.

![](https://o365hq.com/images/838.png)

It is simple to build a new Cloud Discovery snapshot report right from
your Cloud App Security Home page. Such reports allow you to check
traffic at a point in time when trying to detect anomalous activity or
specific data sets that would help pin down threat-based activities.

![](https://o365hq.com/images/839.png)

**Microsoft Defender Security Center** gives you access to the Microsoft
Defender ATP security platform for intelligent defense, research and
response. The integration of Microsoft Defender ATP with Microsoft Cloud
App provides you with deeper visibility into both sanctioned cloud apps
and shadows IT, as well as the opportunity to block unauthorized
applications when the customer network indicators setting is turned on.

![](https://o365hq.com/images/840.png)

With Microsoft Defender ATP Integration enabled, it is easy to produce
continuous reports on a schedule, so you always have up-to-date data
from your network. Cloud App Security provides reports on the
applications used across the company and shows a summary of the
discovered apps and categories.

![](https://o365hq.com/images/841.png)

Once apps are classified, you can easily block access to unsanctioned
apps to prevent users from accessing those apps and generate an
executive report about the discovered apps. You can also create policies
to keep your data safe in the cloud and avoid files that are dangerous.
App connectors use the APIs to empower better visibility and control by
Microsoft Cloud App Security over the apps you connect to.

![](https://o365hq.com/images/842.png)

**Azure Information Protection** is set to automatically scan new files
for AIP classification labels and content inspection warnings. After you
have verified your settings, you can create some policies. **The
Policies Page** demonstrates a list of policies that can be filtered by
name, type, status and category.

![](https://o365hq.com/images/843.png)

**File Policies** are used for detecting threats to your information
protection policies. It is also possible to create a session policy for
SharePoint that provide real-time control over user activity in your
cloud apps. Here you can decide whether to monitor user sessions, block
activities or manage file download.

![](https://o365hq.com/images/844.png)

Once the session policy has been created, you can then configure a file
policy to isolate confidential files that are shared externally. On the
**Files page** you can check all the files discovered by Cloud App
Security and if a policy match was discovered while the **Alerts page**
shows you the related alerts.

![](https://o365hq.com/images/845.png)

You can also control user access to corporate resources with Conditional
Access App Control. While you are creating a new policy, you can choose
a built-in policy, including monitor only or block downloads, or you can
use a custom policy, which needs to be configured in Cloud App Security.

![](https://o365hq.com/images/846.png)

Cloud App Security helps you manage, control and audit apps and
resources. Real-time controls allow you to enable threat protection on
all the access points that touch your environment. Elevate your security
posture by taking control of your cloud environment.