+++
title = "Dynamics 365 Customer Service"
description = "Dynamics 365 for Customer Service is a platform for customer engagement after a sale. The self-service experience provided by Dynamics 365 blends the tools we use for sales with modern collaboration, allowing customers to quickly find answers to questions with the web-enabled device of their choice. "
date = 2019-10-15

[taxonomies]
tags = ["dynamics365"]
+++

Discoverable and accessible knowledge available to customers through a
collaboration-enabled portal reduces support costs, improves customer
satisfaction, and increases brand loyalty. The self-service portal
engages customers with the means of support they desire through a
searchable knowledge base, live and automated chat, and discussion
forums, as well as the ability to provide organizations with feedback
through polls, ratings, and comments.

### Customer Portal Self-Service

Dynamics 365 Customer Service provides a branded, personalized
self-service experience with a searchable knowledge base that delivers
consistent and up-to-date answers. Customers can easily access it and
interact with it.

![](https://o365hq.com/images/558.png)

Dynamics 365 for Customer Service provides personalized results
optimized for relevance by filtering the content based on categories
assigned to your profile. Results can be filtered by information, such
as Modified Date and ratings, to help you find current and popular
content.

![](https://o365hq.com/images/557.png)

Dynamics 365 for Customer Service has a complete KB article management
system that tracks and allows for articles to include video and other
multimedia content. Users can rate and comment on the content. The
ratings play a crucial role. You can define triggers to unpublish, or
otherwise take action, on content based on rating thresholds.
*Gamification* can be tied in to award KB authors points based on
positive ratings and high view counts.

![](https://o365hq.com/images/556.png)

### Agent-Assisted Service

The customized agent dashboard provides you with ready access to cases,
KB articles, and keeps you on top of real-time activity. You can easily
click to pick up the chat.

![](https://o365hq.com/images/555.png)

In the Navigation history there are details related to the customer location
and chat information. With additional configuration, Live Assist can
provide details about the customer, including login name and customer
details.

![](https://o365hq.com/images/564.png)

Dynamics 365 allows extensive flexibility for creating SLAs
with required response windows and associated actions, including
warnings and workflows triggered when SLAs are at risk or in
violation of terms.

![](https://o365hq.com/images/559.png)

### Agent Desktop

Unified Service Desk for Dynamics is completely customizable to meet
your business requirements. One of the key features of the desktop is
the ability to integrate different applications into the desktop to
support legacy applications, cloud services, chat, AI, or integrate with
other Dynamics platforms.

A voice-activated chat service allows the agent to interact with the
cases using voice. The virtual assistant suggests that the open case
from before is the best service case to start working on for contextual
knowledge to help you focus on the right activities.

![](https://o365hq.com/images/560.png)

The agent script can be customized for different purposes and ensures
that a quality experience is provided for customers through alignment
with a uniform managed process. Here you can see the customer's profile
and contact information in the system.

![](https://o365hq.com/images/563.png)

![](https://o365hq.com/images/562.png)

Workflows could also be used to add more information, such as branding,
graphics, and suggested message boilerplates. Dynamics 365 and the
Unified Service Desk will help you resolve any case quickly and address
the customer's needs.

![](https://o365hq.com/images/561.png)
