+++
title = "Get started with Microsoft 365 Training to maximize your impact"
description = "Microsoft 365 offers first-class security and intelligent cloud services to help nonprofits increase efficiency and collaboration within an organization while keeping it secure. "
date = "2020-12-15"

[taxonomies]
tags = ["microsoft 365"]
+++

Microsoft 365 with Microsoft Teams allows you to manage online meetings,
chats, and cloud storage in real time remotely and onsite. With
Microsoft 365 your organization can reduce the costs by getting one
single solution including Teams, OneDrive cloud storage, and Office apps
with advanced security options.

Video conferencing, instant messaging, and your own Yammer site empower
your staff and volunteers to collaborate in exciting new ways. Online
storage and remote file sharing enable you to easily access your emails
and edit online documents anywhere and anytime.

Keeping confidential information safe is essential for the protection of
your staff and programs as well as for the success of your organization.
With Microsoft 365 there is no reason to worry about security on your
users\` devices. You can also provide your employees with various free
and low-cost courses and trainings to promote your mission with
cloud-powered technology.

Here are several recommendations for your organization:

**[Covid-19 response track for
Nonprofits](https://techsoup.course.tc/catalog/track/coronavirus-mitigation-track)**

This free training course will help you make the transition to remote
work as smooth as possible.

**[Microsoft Teams training track for
Nonprofits](https://techsoup.course.tc/catalog/track/teams-for-nonprofits-collaboration-tools-at-your-fingertips?utm_campaign=Digital%20Skills%20Center&utm_source=email&utm_medium=text-link&utm_term=microsoft-dedicated-email-teams-20201208&utm_content=microsoft-dedicated-email-teams-20201208)**

This tutorial will walk you through the features of Microsoft Teams with
nonprofit-focused user scenarios, including a Getting Started course, an
advanced course, and a special Ask the Expert session.

**[Live training with a Microsoft
expert](https://forms.microsoft.com/Pages/ResponsePage.aspx?id=v4j5cvGGr0GRqy180BHbR0ljDMeZetFKmuEmmJB1pE1URTgwOTZNMDJaUDdKVVUwOExFNFAyRTRGVS4u)**

You can always fill out the training request form and schedule a free,
customized training session for your team.

**[Microsoft 365 Administrator\`s Security
Toolkit](https://techimpact.course.tc/catalog/course/m365-admin-security-toolkit?_cldee=bXltQGl0cGFydG5lcjM2NS5jb20%3d&recipientid=lead-fe38c3b5dac0ea11bf2100155dd3c83a-12a2faf0489e4162a7c7ae1527359e9d&esid=09473f31-3939-eb11-a813-000d3a32ad9b)**

This nonprofit-focused course will provide you with the best-in-class
security settings and tools across the Microsoft 365 suite.

**[Microsoft 365 fundamentals
training](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/certifications/microsoft-365-fundamentals?_cldee=bXltQGl0cGFydG5lcjM2NS5jb20%3d&recipientid=lead-fe38c3b5dac0ea11bf2100155dd3c83a-12a2faf0489e4162a7c7ae1527359e9d&esid=09473f31-3939-eb11-a813-000d3a32ad9b)**

This self-paced learning track will help you discover how Microsoft 365
can help you with digital transformation.

**[10 things you get from holding Microsoft
certifications](https://query.prod.cms.rt.microsoft.com/cms/api/am/binary/RE4FRd2?_cldee=bXltQGl0cGFydG5lcjM2NS5jb20%3d&recipientid=lead-fe38c3b5dac0ea11bf2100155dd3c83a-12a2faf0489e4162a7c7ae1527359e9d&esid=09473f31-3939-eb11-a813-000d3a32ad9b)**

Microsoft training and certifications will prepare you for the roles
that employees are looking to fill.

Microsoft 365 can streamline the challenges and opportunities your
nonprofit faces. Nonprofit digital training and courses will help your
team build the skills necessary to fully utilize Microsoft 365
collaboration tools.

Visit [nonprofit digital skills
training](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/nonprofits/resources?_cldee=bXltQGl0cGFydG5lcjM2NS5jb20%3d&recipientid=lead-fe38c3b5dac0ea11bf2100155dd3c83a-12a2faf0489e4162a7c7ae1527359e9d&esid=09473f31-3939-eb11-a813-000d3a32ad9b&activetab=pivot1:primaryr3)
and courses page to review numerous resources for nonprofits and learn
how to drive greater impact with Microsoft 365.