+++
title = "Microsoft Teams for IT"
description = "Each Microsoft Teams environment consists of channels to organize different types of activities, content, and topics. A team can exist within a company or a project. You can easily add new members and even external members through secure guest access."
date = 2020-03-11

[taxonomies]
tags = ["microsoft teams"]
+++

Channels are dedicated sections within a team, open to all team members.
But sometimes, team members need a space for more focused collaboration.
In such cases, you can add Private channels to the team for
communication, without having to create a separate team.

![](https://o365hq.com/images/703.png)

Microsoft Teams conversations are threaded, allowing for in-context
replies to specific conversations and clear differentiation between
topics. Conversations, files, and meetings are all completely
integrated. Immersive Reader offers flexible settings for visual text
presentation and controls for text-to-speech that adapt to the unique
needs and styles of each user so the visual presentation of the
information is not a barrier to effective collaboration.

![](https://o365hq.com/images/705.png)

Visual settings include color and typography to help with reading, plus
visual cues to accommodate comprehension needs. Text-to-speech settings
allow the Immersive Reader voice to adapt to the user when it is used to
collaborate in Teams. There are several options for navigating Teams. It
is possible to use the left navigation, or the command box, which
integrates running commands with search. From there you can look for
information and easily insert a specific result into a channel
conversation. It is simple to act right from the box with *slash
commands*, which are shortcuts that allow you to quickly perform tasks
or navigate Teams.

![](https://o365hq.com/images/704.png)

Team members can seamlessly go from a conversation into a meeting,
interacting with colleagues and clients directly in real time from
inside the channel. The meeting can include video and screen sharing to
increase engagement and productivity. Meeting attendees can also enable
*Blur my background* before and during the meeting, helping others on
the video call to stay focused on them while protecting any information
that might be visible in the background.

It is possible to schedule a meeting with a user experience like
Outlook and enter all necessary information, including a title and
details. Meetings in Microsoft Teams are integrated with Exchange, so
the Scheduling Assistant feature suggests times optimal for all
attendees. The meeting organizer will retrieve a suggested time based on
members' availability. The meeting will then appear in the channel and
invited attendees are notified.

![](https://o365hq.com/images/706.png)

Teams in Microsoft 365 provides business calling for people on a global
scale. It enables call control and PBX capabilities in Microsoft
365, combined with your choice of voice line provider and/or a Teams
Calling Plan.

Microsoft Teams makes it easy to conduct business with people wherever
they are located. It is easy to add guests to teams and make calls directly
to people inside and outside your organization. Calls includes a dialer,
contact list, history, and voicemail--everything you need to make calls.

You can easily pin people to your speed dial list to make sure they are
always at your fingertips and view all your contacts imported from Skype
for Business. Conversations that do not require the entire team are
possible through private 1:1 and group chats. Within a private chat, it
is easy to start a spontaneous call to resolve an issue, answer a
question, collaborate on content, or reach a quick decision.

![](https://o365hq.com/images/707.png)

In chats, team members see only the private conversations that they
created or to which they were added. Here, you can also have group chats
with just a few select people, rather than including the entire team. If
needed, it is possible to add people to a 1:1 chat or a group chat by
clicking the *Add people* icon in the upper right-hand corner of the
chat window.

Back in the *Service Strategy* channel, tabs can be added for files,
notes, web sites, and apps. The IT team uses Microsoft Planner to
organize work and stay on track. The plan has buckets for organizing
tasks by status: *To-do, Completed, and Backlog*. The status bubble on
the tile also updates, so users can see status changes quickly.

![](https://o365hq.com/images/708.png)

Microsoft Teams offers admins effective tools for customizing teams to
meet the needs of the entire organization and specific groups within
your company. For Teams deployment, you can leverage Advisor for Teams
to streamline workload rollouts. *Advisor for Teams* will identify the
most common configurations that may need to be updated or modified for a
successful rollout.

Teams global policies allow you to provide different levels of controls
to different groups. In this case, the system integration team that
works with healthcare projects has its own messaging policy, with very
tight controls on editing to comply with some contracts. This team now
has a request to turn off GIFs, memes, and stickers for their
users due to the nature of the work and contract needs. Policies allow
admins to refine access to the Teams feature sets. Admins can create
specialized polices for *Meetings, Messaging, Calling, Apps, Live
Events, and Call Parking*. Admins can then assign these policies at the
user level to meet the needs of specific roles at the company.

![](https://o365hq.com/images/709.png)

The *Call Parking* feature lets users put a call on hold and continue it
on a new device or even hand the call off to a different user. Using a
simple code, anyone can pick up a call on hold from devices with Teams
installed. This is especially useful for the mobile staff in the factory
who can collaborate from different devices or workstations on the
factory floor. With Microsoft Teams it is easy to enable a modern
workplace environment. As a hub for communication and collaboration,
Microsoft Teams ensures that an organization is set up for long-term
success.

![](https://o365hq.com/images/710.png)
