+++
title = "Microsoft Teams Rooms"
description = "Microsoft has introduced video conference room solution for Microsoft Teams, that transforms the small huddle areas into a rich, video-enabled collaboration space. Teams Rooms is intended for use with Microsoft Teams, Skype for Business Online, Skype for Business Server 2019, or Skype for Business Server 2015. It allows you to start meetings on time with one-touch join and seamlessly share your content with remote participants. "
date = "2020-08-23"

[taxonomies]
tags = ["microsoft teams"]
+++

You can simply schedule a meeting by booking rooms directly using Room
list. All you need to do is to hit one button and you will be able to
collaborate in your meeting right away.

![](https://o365hq.com/images/805.jpg)

Microsoft has recently delivered *Proximity detection* feature to boost
Teams meetings experience in Meeting rooms. *Proximity join* will help
you discover and add nearby, available Microsoft Teams Rooms to any
meeting. It is also possible to simply accept the incoming meeting right
on the console of the room.

![](https://o365hq.com/images/806.png)

With wireless sharing through Teams,â€¯you can choose just a specific
application to ensure privacy or you can decide to share your entire
desktop. As well you have your recent PowerPoint files on your
fingertips, no more searching needed!

On the Teams Room you now can see the sharing incoming in full screen,
and you can select your preferred view on a single screen and If you
have dual screen, it is even possible to swap which display should show
content and which video.

![](https://o365hq.com/images/809.png)

Microsoft has also integrated *Microsoft Whiteboard* into Microsoft
Teams to let teams collaborate using a digital whiteboard that can hold
images, drawings and hand-written notes. Attendees can participate
directly from their devices including Mac, PC, Android, Mobile straight
from there Teams Client, or even from a Browser without the need to
install any application.

The Whiteboard automatically shows up on the Teams Room and people can
contribute via their personal devices all together. But you can also
attach a touchscreen to the Room to collaborate directly from the
screen. With ink grab you can digitize everything to your whiteboard and
continue to work with all your remote attendees.

![](https://o365hq.com/images/807.png)

Using the Microsoft Teams Room console users have full meeting settings
capabilities. This allows them to mute noisy meeting participants,
remove participants entirely, add new participants, and mute themselves.
You can add colleagues from your corporate address book directly to the
meeting, or even add them via a PSTN number.

Users can use Teams to arrange phone calls to or from land lines and
mobile phones via the public switched telephone network *(PSTN)*. This
room has an assigned number already which can be used to call into 3rd
party meetings or conference calls.

![](https://o365hq.com/images/808.png)

Microsoft Teams will automatically join the meeting in content-only mode
from your desktop, allowing the room to provide audio and video into the
meeting without echo and feedback generated by the other participants in
the room. If the Microsoft Teams Room is already in the meeting and you
would like to get connected from your devices as well, Teams will detect
this and will offer you to join the meeting with audio off as well.

![](https://o365hq.com/images/810.png)

Microsoft Teams Rooms offers a complete meeting experience that brings
HD video, audio, and content sharing to meetings of all sizes. They work
with your existing video displays and video cameras certified for MS
Teams, making it easy to launch a meeting from any space and with a
single touch.