+++
title = "Microsoft Secure Score"
description = "When it comes to security breaches, the vast majority occur because of security hygiene related issues. Sometimes devices are misconfigured, or technologies are simply not implemented. In either case, your environment is left vulnerable to breaches that were likely preventable. "
date = "2020-09-28"

[taxonomies]
tags = ["security", "security links"]
+++

Microsoft Secure Score helps you ensure that you can achieve the full
potential of what Microsoft 365 has to offer. With it you get the
visibility, guidance, and controls you need to maximize your hygiene and
security posture.

Microsoft Secure Score has a brand-new home and a new, improved look and
feel in *Microsoft 365 security center*. The Microsoft 365 security
center has a *Home* page rich with dashboards.

Each of these spaces are designed to provide security administrators
with the tools they need to take full advantage of Microsoft 365
intelligent security capabilities and drive maximum security posture
improvement.

![](https://o365hq.com/images/833.png)

Your score is composed of five sub-categories that mirror those found in
Microsoft Threat Protection. These include *Identity, Data, Device,
Apps, and Infrastructure*. In most cases these numbers are updated in
near real-time and they factor in over 100 improvement actions and
recommendations across Microsoft 365 security, which includes Windows,
Office, Enterprise Mobility plus Security suite, Azure and more.

The *Actions to review* section of the page provides a roll-up of
improvement actions which have or will impact the overall Secure Score.
Here you can quickly see actions which have regressed, actions
recommended to be addressed, actions planned to be resolved and
improvement actions you've chosen to accept as risky. You can also
determine if new improvement actions were recently added or updated by
Microsoft via product updates.

The *Top Improvement Actions* list shows the most impactful *Improvement
actions* to focus on. In the list, you can see how Secure Score will be
impacted, the status of the action, and which category they fall within.

The *Comparison* section of the Overview dashboard lets you see how your
security posture stacks up to other organizations which are similar in
size and licensing. Comparing your secure score to organizations,
provides relevant qualitative data to identify the type of score you
should be striving towards.

![](https://o365hq.com/images/834.png)

The *Improvement actions* page provides a comprehensive stack-ranked
list of recommended improvement actions. The *Rank* score is used to
stack rank the list based on security value and the impact each item has
followed by the *Score impact*, which factors heavily into the
cost/benefit equation of the improvement action. You can also quickly
see the *Status* of improvement actions, those which are *Planned, still
To address, are Completed* or for which you've opted to utilize *Third
party* solutions. Microsoft Secure Score allows you to aggregate points
for non-Microsoft solutions to paint a comprehensive and accurate
picture of your security posture.

![](https://o365hq.com/images/835.png)

You can quickly see a description of the improvement action, and a
one-click *Manage* button to navigate to *Attack Surface Reduction*
rules. The *At a glance* section of the page details the *Category* of
the action -- in this case *Identity* -- what kind of threats are
protected against, the applicable product.

But there is another dimension you might consider before implementing
the recommendation, which is *User Impact*. A high user impact may cause
you to deprioritize another action in the short term. Conversely, a low
*User impact* may motivate the team to score a quick win with little
impact to the productivity of the organization. The *Implementation*
section helps your team identify Prerequisites, Next steps, and the
current *Implementation* status of the improvement action.

![](https://o365hq.com/images/837.png)

Once you have started using Secure Score to improve your organization's
security posture, the next step is to maintain and improve it over time.
The *History* workspace is designed to help you do just that.

The *Metrics & trends* dashboard provides security administrators with
views that are ideal for conducting a posture improvement discussion
with leadership and the CISO. Here you can explore the trends and
factors that have generated our overall Secure Score on a more granular
level.\
The data visualizations on this page make data easier to understand --
like detecting patterns, trends, relationships, and outliers.

Secure Score allows you to quickly identify and mitigate regressed
actions empowering you to stay on top of changes to your security
landscape and posture. Lastly, the *Risk accepted trend* details the
number of improvement actions over the period you've chosen to accept
as-is based upon organizational criteria and constraints -- such as
having minimal security impact, a high cost to implement, or high impact
to users.

![](https://o365hq.com/images/836.png)

To summarize, there are some key Microsoft Secure Score features,
including:

1.  An Overview rich with relevant data and KPIs.
2.  Complete and comprehensive list of Improvement actions to drive your
    Secure Score up.
3.  History of the Improvement actions.
4.  Detailed Metric and trend data presented in intuitive and easy to
    understand visualizations.

As you can see, Microsoft Secure Score not only provides visibility into
your organization's security posture, it also gives you the tools to
maximize it.